# Hursley Park House 1902 - 1940 (The Cooper Era)

## The Cooper Family

The Cooper era was an opulent period which
proved to be the swan song of the house as a
private residence. After Mr G A Cooper
purchased Hursley Park in 1902, the village
people soon realised that the old order of the
Park House was to continue on an even
grander scale. The Coopers, being very
wealthy, had the means to administer the
house and estate in a way that most other
people could only dream about. Mr Cooper
had been a solicitor in his native town of
Elgin in Moray, Scotland; his wife was
American, and had inherited an immense
fortune from an American uncle whose
business was in real estate and canning. It
was encouraging for the people of Hursley
village to know that Mr Cooper was a
philanthropist: he had earlier presented his
home town of Elgin with a valuable park and
house. The Coopers also had an estate in
Scotland and a large house in London where
the American Embassy stands today.