## The Oak Panelling

The magniﬁcent oak panelling installed in
the vestibule, halls, and galleries are
attributed to Grinling Gibbons 1648—1720, the
famous wood carver and sculptor. There is
uncertainty as to whether he was Dutch or
English, but the most famous work attributed
to him is in England. By an intriguing series
of events the panelling at Hursley originally
came from Winchester College Chapel: the
panels were removed from the chapel on the
supposed instruction of the architect
Butterﬁeld in 1874-5, in the hope of revealing
ﬁne stonework and masonry of the ﬁfteenth
century. Unfortunately the hopes of the
architect were not realised and interest in the
chapel interior appears then to have waned.
The whole mass of carved oak was left in a
heap outside for some considerable time
exposed to the weather. No interest was taken
in the panelling until a former scholar (who
later became a bishop) paid £60 and took it to
his home, planning to use it in his private
chapel. His plan never materialised, and
eventually a neighbour became the owner of
the panelling and just stored it. When the
neighbour died, the panelling got into the
hands of dealers, and it is from a dealer that
Mr Cooper is said to have bought it for
£30,000. The best of the panelling was then
installed in the vestibule and main hall of
Hursley Park House, the plainer panels being
used in the east and west halls and galleries.

After the Second World War it had become
apparent that the House would not be used
again as a private residence. This led to the
decision by Captain Sir George Cooper to
donate the panelling to Winchester College,
who used it in their New Hall in about 1960.